---
layout: post
title: San Francisco Tech Job? Check Home Prices First!
subtitle: Housing Prices Make Big San Francisco Tech Salaries Look Small.
image: '/img/SF Map.png'
comments: true
---

If you have a tech job and live outside of California, it's likely you have considered moving to the center of of the tech world - Silicon Valley or San Francisco.  A quick look at the job search sites shows you'll be making the big bucks!  But before you accept that $120,000 salary make sure you take a close look at housing costs.  

You can take a look at the interactive chart below to get details on just how expensive San Francisco single family homes are.  The chart breaks down the single family home sales by Median Sales Price, Minimum Income Required, Average Sales Price, Average Sales Price Per Square Foot, Average Square Footage and Number of Sales all by neighborhood and year (10 years of data). 

<iframe src="https://sf-real-estate.herokuapp.com/SF_Real_Estate_Project" width="950" height="950" style="border: none;"></iframe>

Let's compare San Francisco with the top 20 tech metro areas in the U.S. based on highest average mean wage for Computer and and Mathematical Occupations.


Now let's take those 20 tech metro centers and rank them by the 2018 Housing Differential.  The Housing Differential takes the average mean wage of a tech worker and subtracts income needed to buy a single family home.

As you can see San Francisco and Silicon Valley (San Jose Metro Area) show a negative housing differential.  In other words, your big tech salary won't cover the mortgage!

Where does your tech salary go the furthest?  You may be surprised to find out it's Huntville, Alabama where nearly 4,000 aerospace engineers work for companies such as Boeing and Blue Origin.  It has relatively high salaries compared to housing prices.

San Francisco Real Estate Data Source:  San Francisco MLS

Salary Data: Bureau of Labor Statistics

Minimum Income Required - Uses the California Association of Realtors Housing Affordability Index - Traditional Methodology.  It uses median price, 20% down payment, monthly house payment based on annual 4% interest rate, 1% tax rate and .38% insurance rate, and assumes no more than 30% of household income can be used for housing payment.
