---
layout: post
title: How to Create an Interactive Geographic Map Using Python and Bokeh
subtitle: Interactive Data Visualization with Choropleth Maps
image: '/img/SF Map.png'
comments: true
---

If you are looking for a powerful way to visualize geographic data then you should learn to use interactive Choropleth maps. A Choropleth map represents statistical data through various shading patterns or symbols on predetermined geographic areas such as countries, states or counties. Static Choropleth maps are useful for showing one view of data, but an interactive Choropleth map is much more powerful and allows the user to select the data they prefer to view. 

The interactive chart below provides details on San Francisco single family homes sales. The chart breaks down the single family home sales by Median Sales Price, Minimum Income Required, Average Sales Price, Average Sales Price Per Square Foot, Average Square Footage and Number of Sales all by neighborhood and year (10 years of data).

<iframe src="https://sf-real-estate.herokuapp.com/SF_Real_Estate_Project" width="950" height="775" style="border: none;"></iframe>

If you'd like to understand how to develop your own interactive map follow along as I step you through the process.

###A Word About the Code

All the code, data and associated files for the project can be accessed at my GitHub. The final Colab code for running on the Bokeh server can be found here. A test version of the Colab code skipping the data cleaning and wrangling steps can be found here.

###Using Python and Bokeh

After exploring several different approaches, I found the combination of Python and Bokeh to be the most straightforward and well-documented method for creating interactive maps.

Let's start with the installs and imports you will need for the graphs. Pandas, numpy and math are standard Python libraries used to clean and wrangle the data. The geopandas, json and bokeh imports are libraries needed for the mapping.

I work in Colab and needed to install fiona and geopandas.
